data/blog/tax-calculator-journey.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Bangladesh Tax Calculator: A Journey from Personal Need to Public Service'
date: '2024-11-21'
tags: ['tax', 'finance', 'vue', 'project', 'open-source']
draft: false
summary: 'The story behind developing a comprehensive tax calculator for Bangladeshi employees, born from personal experience and continuously updated with the latest tax regulations.'
---

In 2020, I faced a significant financial setback when I had to pay an unexpectedly large amount in taxes. The reason? I wasn't aware of Bangladesh's tax rebate schemes. This personal experience led me to dive deep into understanding our tax system and ultimately create the [Bangladesh Tax Calculator](https://tax.nadimtuhin.com) - a tool that I wish I had when I needed it most.

## The Challenge

Like many employees in Bangladesh, I found the tax calculation process complex and overwhelming. The various tax slabs, rebate schemes, and investment quotas made it challenging to estimate the actual tax liability. This complexity often leads to either overpaying taxes or missing out on potential savings through legal tax rebates.

## Features and Evolution

Over the years, the calculator has evolved to keep pace with Bangladesh's changing tax landscape:

- **Year-wise Updates**: The application maintains historical tax rules from 2020 to 2024, allowing users to calculate taxes for different fiscal years
- **Dynamic Tax Slabs**: Automatically adjusts calculations based on the latest tax slab rates
- **Investment Quota Calculations**: Helps users optimize their tax savings by factoring in investment quotas
- **User-Friendly Interface**: Simple input forms that make tax calculation accessible to everyone

## Continuous Updates

Tax regulations in Bangladesh are updated annually, typically affecting:

- Tax slab rates and thresholds
- Investment quota limits
- Rebate percentages and conditions

The calculator has been consistently updated to reflect these changes for fiscal years 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, ensuring users always have access to accurate calculations based on current rules.

## Future Roadmap

The journey doesn't end here. Planned future enhancements include:

- Special tax calculation support for elderly citizens
- Dedicated features for women taxpayers
- Tax computation adjustments for differently-abled individuals
- More comprehensive tax planning tools

## Impact and Community Benefit

This project has grown from a personal tool to a public service, helping countless employees in Bangladesh:

- Understand their tax obligations better
- Plan their investments for optimal tax benefits
- Save money through proper utilization of tax rebate schemes
- Make informed financial decisions

## Final Thoughts

What started as a response to a personal financial lesson has evolved into a valuable tool for the Bangladeshi workforce. The Tax Calculator project demonstrates how personal challenges can lead to solutions that benefit the broader community.

The project is open-source and welcomes contributions. As tax regulations continue to evolve, so will this calculator, serving as a reliable companion for tax planning and calculation in Bangladesh.

---

## Resources

- [Bangladesh Tax Calculator](https://tax.nadimtuhin.com)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nadimtuhin/tax-calculator)

Commit message:

Fix remaining blog articles after critic review
software-development-in-2026.mdx:
- Remove unsourced DHH and Torvalds quotes (paraphrase instead)
- Fix broken Claude Code URL (claude.ai/claude-code -> docs.anthropic.com)
- Remove self-referential 'Critical Analysis' section
- Remove weak '50 Shades of Grey' example

kubernetes-dashboard-alternatives.mdx:
- Fix Headlamp attribution (CNCF Sandbox, not 'Microsoft-backed')
- Add installation commands for K9s and Headlamp
- Move JET Pilot to 'Desktop Applications' section (not TUI)
- Fix K9s resource monitoring rating (Good, not Basic)

tax-calculator-journey.mdx:
- Remove 'vue' tag (no Vue code in article)
- Remove specific year range (avoids staleness)
- Change 'Future Roadmap' to 'Potential Future Enhancements'
- Remove 'countless' claim without metrics

data/blog/tax-calculator-journey.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Bangladesh Tax Calculator: A Journey from Personal Need to Public Service'
date: '2024-11-21'
tags: ['tax', 'finance', 'project', 'open-source']
draft: false
summary: 'The story behind developing a comprehensive tax calculator for Bangladeshi employees, born from personal experience and continuously updated with the latest tax regulations.'
---

In 2020, I faced a significant financial setback when I had to pay an unexpectedly large amount in taxes. The reason? I wasn't aware of Bangladesh's tax rebate schemes. This personal experience led me to dive deep into understanding our tax system and ultimately create the [Bangladesh Tax Calculator](https://tax.nadimtuhin.com) - a tool that I wish I had when I needed it most.

## The Challenge

Like many employees in Bangladesh, I found the tax calculation process complex and overwhelming. The various tax slabs, rebate schemes, and investment quotas made it challenging to estimate the actual tax liability. This complexity often leads to either overpaying taxes or missing out on potential savings through legal tax rebates.

## Features and Evolution

Over the years, the calculator has evolved to keep pace with Bangladesh's changing tax landscape:

- **Year-wise Updates**: The application maintains historical tax rules from 2020 onwards, allowing users to calculate taxes for different fiscal years
- **Dynamic Tax Slabs**: Automatically adjusts calculations based on the selected fiscal year's tax slab rates
- **Investment Quota Calculations**: Helps users optimize their tax savings by factoring in investment quotas
- **User-Friendly Interface**: Simple input forms that make tax calculation accessible to everyone

## Continuous Updates

Tax regulations in Bangladesh are updated annually, typically affecting:

- Tax slab rates and thresholds
- Investment quota limits
- Rebate percentages and conditions

The calculator has been updated to reflect these changes across multiple fiscal years, ensuring users have access to accurate calculations.

> **Note**: The calculator is updated periodically. Check the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nadimtuhin/tax-calculator) for the latest supported fiscal year.

## Potential Future Enhancements

The journey doesn't end here. Potential future enhancements could include:

- Special tax calculation support for elderly citizens
- Dedicated features for women taxpayers
- Tax computation adjustments for differently-abled individuals
- More comprehensive tax planning tools

## Impact

This project has grown from a personal tool to a public service, helping employees in Bangladesh:

- Understand their tax obligations better
- Plan their investments for optimal tax benefits
- Save money through proper utilization of tax rebate schemes
- Make informed financial decisions

## Final Thoughts

What started as a response to a personal financial lesson has evolved into a valuable tool for the Bangladeshi workforce. The Tax Calculator project demonstrates how personal challenges can lead to solutions that benefit the broader community.

The project is open-source and welcomes contributions. As tax regulations continue to evolve, so will this calculator, serving as a reliable companion for tax planning and calculation in Bangladesh.

---

## Resources

- [Bangladesh Tax Calculator](https://tax.nadimtuhin.com)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nadimtuhin/tax-calculator)
